In This Update

Need to Know

ISSS (and UMN) Closed on Friday, March 17
Information About Filing Non-Resident Tax Returns
Updated Executive Order Affecting Entry in U.S.
USCIS Suspends Premium Processing for H-1B Applications
Immigration Response Team Announced
Upcoming Events

SCB and Small World Coffee Hour Presents: World Festival! The Power of Diversity: Identity Empowers (March 24)
Korean Military Leave Pre-departure Preparation Workshop (March 31)
Other UMN Announcements

Spring into Your Major! (From the Center for Academic Planning and Exploration)
ESL 3001: Academic English-Improve Your Academic English Skills (From the Minnesota English Language Program)
Complete the IT Services Feedback Survey (From Office of Information Technology)
Need to Know

1. ISSS (and UMN) Closed on Friday, March 17
ISSS (and all UMN offices) will be closed on Friday, March 17. Please adjust your schedule accordingly, and we hope you enjoy Spring Break.

2. Information About Filing Non-Resident Tax Returns

There will not be a Non-Resident Tax Clinic this week, due to Spring Break.
GLACIER Tax Prep is currently unavailable. We apologize for the inconvenience, and we will post an update on in the Taxes section of our website as soon as possible.
3. USCIS Suspends Premium Processing for H-1B Applications
The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS) is suspending "Premium Processing" for all H-1B visa petitions for up to 6 months (effective April 3). This will impact all job offers requiring an H-1B visa, as these individuals may not be able to start until November 2017 or later.

Affected UMN staff or faculty should contact your department's Human Resources or Payroll offices with questions or concerns. For more information about how ISSS will be processing H-1B cases for UMN departments, please see the ISSS website.

Please Note: There have been no other changes made to the H-1B program. While we are aware of proposals and rumors that would change to the H-1B visa process, ISSS cannot advise based on hypothetical or proposed changes. We are closely monitoring situations and will provide more information when it is available.

5. Updated Executive Order Affecting Entry in U.S.
On March 6, President Trump signed an updated executive order affecting entry into the U.S. We deeply regret the disruption, uncertainty, and concern that these executive orders have caused many in our campus community.

The new executive order states that citizens of six countries (Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen) will not be granted a visa to enter the United states for 90 days. Permanent residents and individuals who already have a valid visa will be allowed to enter. Individuals from Iraq, unlike the previous executive order on immigration, are not included in the affected countries. However, all refugees are prohibited from entry for 120 days. For more information, please go to the ISSS website.

Contact us at isss@umn.edu if you have questions about your future travel plans or other concerns related to this updated order. Also, we want to reinforce President Kaler's message that international students, staff and faculty are welcome and highly valued here!

4. Immigration Response Team Announced
To ensure that all who are affected by immigration policy changes have a clear and accessible path to resources and support, President Kaler has announced the creation of an immigration response team. Marissa Hill-Dongre, who is currently a senior counselor at ISSS, will be the lead for this new team. It will provide outreach to the greater University community on issues around immigration, DACA, and diversity. International students and scholars should continue to contact ISSS with questions or to receive assistance. Look for further announcements after spring break.

Upcoming Events

See all upcoming events on the ISSS Events Calendar

1. SCB and Small World Coffee Hour Presents: World Festival! The Power of Diversity: Identity Empowers (March 24)
Students Crossing Borders LLC along with Small World Coffee Hour invite you to our World Festival! This will be a celebration of the power of diversity and the empowerment of identities. Join us in honoring the many student groups that represent the multitude of cultures here at the University of Minnesota through cultural performances, cuisines, and showcases. This is a chance to explore other customs and traditions in a vibrant atmosphere. Bring your friends and join us!

DATE/TIME: March 24, 4:00-6:00 p.m.
LOCATION: Middlebrook Hall
LEARN MORE and say you are going on the Facebook Event

2. Korean Military Leave Pre-departure Preparation Workshop (March 31) 
There is an upcoming workshop for international Korean male students who have not yet completed South Korean Mandatory Military Service. This session is specifically for Korean students who plan to leave the UMN in fall 2017, spring 2018, fall 2018, or spring 2019.

During this workshop, you will:

Find out how you can better prepare yourself in academic planning and career preparation before you leave for military service
Get a glimpse of what you can expect during the mandatory military service from a panel of Korean Veterans (this panel will be primarily in Korean)
Find out how you could benefit from your military service!
Eat free Korean food!
An RSVP is required, so please email linxx040@umn.edu by March 30 if you plan to attend. You can also email Jun Seok (Nick) Lee (an international Korean student who is a senior) regarding his perspective about the importance of academic and career preparation before going to military service.

This workshop is collaboration among following units on campus: International Student and Scholar Services, Carlson School of Management, College of Liberal Arts, College of Science & Engineering, and Minnesota English Language Program.

DATE/TIME: March 31, 4:00-5:30 p.m.
LOCATION: Hanson Hall, Room 250

Other UMN Announcements

Note: The following announcements are UMN offices not connected to ISSS, and they may not be an option for all international students and scholars. Please consult an ISSS advisor if you have questions regarding your eligibility.

1. Spring into Your Major! (From the Center for Academic Planning and Exploration)
Join us for this springtime afternoon workshop for undergraduate students designed to help your exploration process around finding your best-fit major.

The workshop will include:

Exploring your personal interests, values, and strengths and how they apply to different U of M majors and careers
Talking to students, advisers, and coaches about possible UMN majors
Learning about different tools and resources to help you along the way
Lunch!
Register on CAPE's website!

DATE/TIME: March 31, 12:15-4:15 p.m.
LOCATION: Bruininks Hall, Room 530B

2. ESL 3001: Academic English-Improve Your Academic English Skills (From the Minnesota English Language Program)
Academic English is a 2-credit course designed to help non-native English speaking students in degree programs polish their English skills in order to be more successful in university level classes. This is a 7-week course will provide support for integrated language skills such as writing for your major, pronunciation, discussion and presentation skills.

For registration information, contact us by email (esl@umn.edu) or phone (612-624-1503).

COURSE NAME: ESL 3001: Academic English-Improve Your Academic English Skills
DAY AND TIME: Mondays and Wednesdays (March 21-May 6), 4:40-6:35 p.m.

The ISSS Weekly Update is one of the primary ways ISSS informs international students and scholars about important news and requirements, including immigration announcements. As such, we strongly discourage students and scholars from unsubscribing. To subscribe or unsubscribe, go to isss.umn.edu/weeklyupdate.

International Student and Scholar Services, 190 Humphrey School, 301 19th Ave. S., Minneapolis, MN, 55455, USA.